## Today I Learned

1. **major.minor.patch** version (also known as **breaking.feature.fix**): `^` instructs npm to install the newest version of the package with the same major version; Use `~` to have both the major and minor version match.
2. `__dirname` and `__filename`: running `node example.js` from `/Users/mjr`, **__dirname** is `/Users/mjr` and **__filename** is `/Users/mjr/example.js`. **`__dirname`** returns the directory name of the directory containing the JavaScript source code file, while **`process.cwd()`** returns the current working directory in which you invoked the `node` command.
3. `path.resolve()` and `path.join()`: **path.resolve** creates absoulte path from right to left until an absolute path is constructed, whereas **path.join** simply concatenates every parameter from left to right whether they have `/` or not. TypeError is thrown if any of the arguments is not a string.
   - `path.resolve('/a', '/b', 'c')` returns: `/b/c`
   - `path.join('/a', '/b', 'c')` returns: `/a/b/c`
   - `path.join('/foo', 'bar', 'baz/asdf', 'quux', '..')` returns: `/foo/bar/baz/asdf`
4. Quickly browse the history of a file in the repo: Go to a file in GitHub (or GitLab, or Bitbucket), replace `github.com` with `github.githistory.xyz` (i.e. https://github.githistory.xyz/kexiZeroing/FE-Learning-notes/blob/master/README.md)
5. One second to read GitHub code with VS Code online. Just add 1s after github (`github1s.com`) in browser address bar for any repository you want to read. Another one, open a GitHub repo, press `.`, then VS Code opens up in your browser. You can also change `github.com` to `github.dev` in the URL in order to achieve the same effect.
6. Type `Cmd + K` to open the GitHub command palette to quickly navigate, search projects and try other commands.
7. Link to a specific line number (or lines range) on GitHub: click the line number, and then copy the link from the address bar. To select a range, click the number, and then Shift click the later number. But when that file is updated, you'll have a URL that points to the wrong lines. We can have the permanent link for that particular commit by pressing the `y` key, and the URL will change to have the actual SHA hash for that particular commit, rather than the current version of the file.
8. `Cmd + Shift + .` toggles hidden files in Mac.
9. After `Cmd + h` to hide the window, there is no shortcut to bring the window back, **because the app loses focus when hidden**. The easiest way to do is using task switcher `Cmd + Tab` to display it normally.
10. Open VS Code in terminal: `Cmd + Shift + P` -> type **Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH** -> restart the terminal for the new `$PATH` value to take effect, and type `code .` to open VS Code. (`open .` to open the Finder)
11. Use "Organize Imports" in VS Code to remove unused imports. Run it via the command palette or add this to `settings.json` to run automatically on save. In addition, you can use up and down keys in the search box to access your search history. Use `Ctrl + G` to navigate to a specific line.
12. Open VS code `settings.json`: `Cmd + Shift + P` -> type "Open Settings" and choose the one with JSON. User settings apply globally, while workspace settings only apply to the workspace you are currently working in. Workspace settings override user settings.
13. Drag the file tab from VS Code into the terminal to get the absolute path for that file.
14. Browser notepad: `data:text/html,<html contenteditable>`
15. Ever struggled with some forgotten processes taking over a port you're trying to use? Just run `npx kill-port [port-number]`. In addition, `fkill` is an awesome CLI tool that lets you kill hanging processes `npx fkill`.
16. Type `env` or `printenv` in the terminal to list all the default environment variables. The `env` command can run other commands with modified environments. If no command is given, `env` prints environment variables. `printenv` can only print environment variables and cannot run commands.
17. Install [tldr-pages](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr) `npm install -g tldr` which simplify the `man pages` with practical examples, e.g. try to run `tldr tar` or `tldr git branch`.
18. Short link `react.new`, `vue.new`, `ng.new`, `js.new`, `csb.new` to create a new codeSandbox project. [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com/) is another similar platform and might be the most exciting in-browser IDE (try `remix.new`, `node.new`). All code execution in StackBlitz happens within the browser security sandbox and cannot break out to your local machine. (not on remote VMs or local binaries)
19. Use `if (typeof window === 'undefined')` to execute code only in the server-side. We can’t do it using `if (window === undefined)` because we’d get a “window is not defined” runtime error.
20. `du` command is used to display disk usage statistics. It calculate and print the disk space used by files or directories. `-a` option means display an entry for each file; `-s` will summarize and show only the total size of the directory; `-h` for human-readable output.
21. You can set the parameters of the function passed to setInterval and setTimeout by specifying extra arguments in the call, e.g. `setTimeout(console.log, 1000, 'hello');`
22. Scroll the window to a particular place in the document, `window.scroll({top: 100, left: 100, behavior: 'smooth'});` or setting in CSS `html { scroll-behavior: smooth; }`
23. Conditionally add a member to an object: `const item = {... true && {bar: 'bar'}, ... false && {falsy: 'falsy'}};`, and the item will be `{bar: "bar"}`
24. A **daemon** is a background, non-interactive program. It is detached from the keyboard and display of any interactive user. The word daemon for denoting a background program is from the Unix culture.
25. If you want to distinguish `zsh` script files, then you can change the script’s file extension from `.sh` to `.zsh`. But **the file extension will have no effect on which interpreter will be used to run the script. That is determined by the shebang**, the extension only provides a visible clue in the Finder or Terminal.
26. **GNU** (GNU's Not Unix) is a collection of tools which help to create a fully functional operating system. GNU's goal was to create a fully free, open source replacement of Unix. **Linux functions as an operating system kernel but the Linux kernel alone does not form a working operating system**. When Linux was created, there were many GNU components already created but GNU lacked a kernel, so Linux was used with GNU components to create a complete operating system. We prefer to use the term **"GNU/Linux"** to refer to systems that many people casually refer to as “Linux”.
27. All shells originate from the Bourne Shell, called `sh`. **Bash** means Bourne Again SHell. `sh` was proprietary and not open source, but Bash is created as a free alternative for the GNU project. It offers functional improvements over `sh` for both programming and interactive use.
28. **Terminal** in the software sense can take input and pass it on. It's good at displaying textual output, but the Terminal doesn't actually process your input. Technically **Console** is a device (has screen and keyboard) and Terminal is the software program inside the Console. In the software world a Terminal and a Console are synonymous. A **shell** is the program that the Terminal sends user's input to. The shell generates output and passes it back to the Terminal for display. Your choice of shell doesn't and shouldn't dictate your choice of terminal application. (**Shell**: bash, fish, zsh, PowerShell, cmd; **Console/Terminal**: Hyper, cmder, MinTTY, Windows Terminal, VSCode includes a Terminal).
29. A local **shell variable** can be declared using `=` sign (should not be any spaces between a variable's name, `=` and its value) and its value can be retrieved using the `$` sign. Because using `$` to identify variables, you need to escape it if you want to remove a file whose name contains a `$` , like `rm -r \$RECYCLE.BIN`. Positional parameter `$0` is the script's name, and `$1 … $9` are parameter list elements from 1 to 9. If you execute `./script.sh Hello World`, it will make `$0 = ./script.sh`, `$1 = Hello`, `$2 = World`.
30. The javascript `void` operator evaluates the given expression and then returns undefined. It is **often used merely to obtain the undefined primitive value**, usually using `void(0)` (which is equivalent to `void 0`). Arrow functions with a short-hand braceless syntax will return an expression. This can cause unintended side effects by returning the result of a function that previously returned nothing. To be safe, when the return value is not intended to be used, it can be passed to the `void` operator.
31. [Browser sync](https://browsersync.io/docs/command-line) local server: `npx browser-sync start --server --files "."`. It watches all files in the current folder (and all subfolders) for changes and launches a web server on port 3000. Any time you change a file, the browser will refresh. Run `browser-sync start --help` for more information.
32. [http-server](https://github.com/http-party/http-server) is a simple static HTTP server. Serving defaults to `./public` if the folder exists, and `./` otherwise. `index.html` will be served as the default file to any directory requests. You can also configure the Port, CORS, Cache, HTTPS, Proxy (proxies all requests which can't be resolved locally to the given url), etc.
33. Use [JSON Placeholder](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/) or [JSON Server](https://github.com/typicode/json-server) to get a full fake REST API when a quick back-end is needed for prototyping and mocking.
34. **GitHub pages** is a free way to host projects. It has two types of pages: User pages or Project pages. User pages is for hosting a personal website or a portfolio. You can only have one user page attached to your GitHub account and the URL will be `yourusername.github.io`. Project pages is used to host a project and you can create multiple project pages per account. Github uses `gh-pages` branch to get files to build and publish from. The URL for this page will be `yourusername.github.io/projectname`.
35. Just-in-Time (JIT) vs Ahead-of-Time (AOT) compilation in Angular: **JIT compiler** runs on client side in the browser. It performs a lot of work to analyze application’s directives and components at runtime and generate code in memory. When the page is refreshed, all the work that has been done is thrown away, and the JIT compiler does the work all over again. **AOT compiler** runs on server side (node.js) at build time. The browser downloads a pre-compiled version of the application. The browser loads executable code so it can render the application faster. We also don't ship `@angular/compiler` code in our production bundle anymore.
36. JavaScript started out slow (using interpreter, i.e., if you’re in a loop, you have to do the same translation over and over again), but then got faster thanks to **JIT**. If the same lines of code are run a lot, the JIT will send it off to be compiled and store that compilation.
37. **CSS scroll snap** can create a scrollable container with well-controlled scrolling experience. First, using the `overflow` with a value other than `visible` for the scrolling container. Then we need to add `scroll-snap-type: x mandatory` to the container and add `scroll-snap-align: start` to the child items. The `x` value represents horizontal scrolling, and the `mandatory` means that the browser must snap to each scroll point. The child items need an alignment point that they can snap to. We can imagine there is a magnet on the scrolling container at `start`, `center` or `end`.
38. Babel compiles JSX `<div>Hi</div>` to a function call `React.createElement('div', null, 'hi')`. If you have a comment like `/** @jsx cool */`, Babel will transpile the JSX using the function `cool` you defined instead of `React.createElement`, so you can have a function `const cool = (el, props, ...children) => {}`, which could be totally not related to React.
39. Ever tried debugging an element (e.g. input dropdown) that keeps disappearing when it loses focus once you start using devtools? `Cmd + Shift + P`, then type "Emulate a focused page". Another way to freeze UI, open up the devtools source panel and use `Cmd + \` to pause script execution.
40. Take screenshots using devtools: `Cmd + Shift + P`, then type "screenshots". You can choose an area screenshot (drag to select), a full website screenshot, an HTML node screenshot (need to select an element first) or a current viewport screenshot.
41. Hacks for playing html video: `$0` to get the element you inspected, and if it's a `<video>`, change playback speed `$0.playbackRate = 2` or show picture-in-picture mode `$0.requestPictureInPicture()`.
42. You could type `document.designMode = 'on'` in devtools console to make your whole website editable, which great to test different texts.
43. In devtools console, you can use `$` and `$$` as shortcuts for `document.querySelector()` and `document.querySelectorAll()` respectively (`$$` returns a true array instead of an array-like NodeList). For example, you can use `console.table($$('img').filter(i => !i.alt), ['src'])` to have the list of image URLs that don't have an alternative text. Furthermore, `$0` gives you the reference to the currently selected element. `$1` is the previously selected element. That goes all the way to `$4`. Use `$_` to get the result of the last evaluated expression in the console. **`copy(anything)` is a handy utility in the console that allows you to put anything into the system clipboard**.
44. When you delete files, the data is not initially removed from the hard disk. Instead, the space on the disk that was occupied by the deleted data is deallocated. After it is deallocated, the space is available for use when new data is written to the disk. Until the space is overwritten, you can recover the deleted data by using a low-level disk editor or data-recovery software.
45. The `<a>` tag has the `ping` attribute, which specifies a URL that will be called when the link is clicked. The URL would get a POST message with the content "PING" (literally), which can be used for tracking purposes and providing stats and information about how the visitors used the site.
46. Why I don't need to clean up my downloads folder in macOS? There's the `/tmp` directory (symlinking to `/private/tmp`). This directory is used for temporary operating system files, and it's automatically cleaned up after you reboot your machine. I configure the browser to store downloads by default in `/private/tmp`.
47. `process.argv` returns an array containing the command-line arguments passed when the Node.js process was launched. The first element will be the 'node', the second element will be the name of the js file. The next elements will be any additional command line arguments.
48. **WebAssembly** is a way of taking code written in programming languages other than JavaScript and running that code (compile to WebAssembly) in the browser. Regardless of the compiler tool chain you’ve used, the end result is a file that ends in **`.wasm`**. Browser downloads the WebAssembly and it can also be used from JavaScript. So just like you download a module like lodash from npm, you will be able to download WebAssembly modules in the future.
49. If you open so many tabs, I just discovered that Chrome offers a UI (chrome://discards) to discard tabs (put them to sleep) to free up system resources.
50. When you create a new app using `npx create-react-app`, the CLI will use Yarn to install dependencies (that's why you can see `yarn.lock`). If you have Yarn installed, but would prefer to use npm, you can append `--use-npm` to the creation command.
51. If `window.opener` is set, a page can trigger a navigation in the opener regardless of origin, which is a potential security risk. You may be familiar with `<a rel="noreferrer">`, which prevents sending the Referer HTTP header and sets `window.opener` to `null` when following a link. If you only want to disable `window.opener` but still send the Referer header, you can use `rel="noopener"`. **All major browsers (like Chrome 88) now implicitly set `rel="noopener"` for any `target="_blank"` link by default**.
52. Shell executes command in the simplified version of steps: prints the prompt and waits for input -> splits this line of command into tokens -> checks if the first token is aliased -> checks if the command is builtin -> searchs in the `PATH` env if the command is not builtin (`ls` is found in `/bin/ls`) -> creates a new process to execute it by using system call. If you are curious to know where the program is stored, `which` command will help you to identify the path and add `-a` option (`which -a ls`) to display all the paths for that specified command.
53. `file` command is used to determine the file type/encoding (`file xyz.txt` or `file *`), but note that it reads only part of the file and takes a best guess with the help of a magic file that contains all the patterns to recognize a file type. `iconv` command is used to convert text **from** the encoding given for the `-f` option **to** the encoding given for the `-t` option. `iconv -l` lists the names of the supported encodings in a system dependent format.
54. `Ctrl-C` sends a kill signal to the foreground application. **`Ctrl-D` sends an EOF character**. On Unix-like systems, an end-of-file condition is triggered by typing `Ctrl-D` at the beginning of a line or by typing `Ctrl-D` twice if not at the beginning of a line. In the latter case, the last line you read will not have a `\n` at the end of it.
55. `dig` command (Domain Information Groper, replacement for `nslookup`) is used to gather DNS information. Type `dig xxx.com` to perform a DNS lookup. The most important section is the ANSWER section which displays the IP address associated with the domain name. By default `dig` requests the A record and uses the local configuration listed in `/etc/resolv.conf` to decide which name server to query. To specify a name server against which the query will be executed, use `dig xxx.com @8.8.8.8`. To find the alias domain name, use the `cname` option `dig xxx.com cname`.
56. `whois` command to find out information about a domain, such as the owner of the domain, the owner’s contact information, and the nameservers that the domain is using.
57. Type `ssh foo@example.com` to connect a remote server and we can add public/private keys for password-less login. A more elegant way is to create a ssh config file `~/.ssh/config` with a `Host xyz` section (also set `HostName`, `Port`, `User`, `IdentityFile` under this section), then simply type `ssh xyz` to connect and the options will be read from the ssh config file.
58. A **landing page** (people arrive at after clicking on a link in an email or an ad from a search engine) is a standalone web page designed to increase the conversion rates of marketing campaigns, so the primary goal is to keep users there until they convert. A **splash page** (appear while a game or program is launching) covers up the site before entering and have more animations, videos, and eye-catching elements. It has an exit link that redirects visitors to the main/home page.
59. **ORM** is Object Relational Mapping, basically a technique that lets you query and manipulate data from a database using an object-oriented paradigm. With the help of ORM, you don’t actually need to use SQL at all. You can directly interact with the database and perform queries in the same language you are using for your back-end code. **ODM** is Object Document Mapping. It is like an ORM for non-relational databases. Mongoose is a good example for ODM for MongoDB.
60. Node `process.platform` returns a string identifying the operating system platform on which the Node.js process is running: `darwin`, `linux`, `win32`. Darwin is the part of OS X that is the actual operating system, which forms the core set of components upon which Mac OS X and iOS are based. To give an analogy, Darwin would be the equivalent of Linux while Mac OS X would be the equivalent of Ubuntu or another distribution.
61. `btoa()` method creates a Base64-encoded ASCII string from a binary string (a String object in which each character is treated as a byte of binary data). `atob()` decodes a string of data which has been encoded using Base64 encoding. `atob()` throws error if encodedData is not valid base64.
62. Pause script execution when the DOM changes which is useful if you don't know the codebase you are debugging: Navigate to the Elements panel -> Find the node which you want to add the breakpoint on -> Right click and check the `Break on` sub menu -> Choose the type of breakpoint (subtree modification, attribute modification, node removal)
63. If you want to hide resources loaded by browser extensions in the Network panel, type `-scheme:chrome-extension` in the filter input box (putting a `-` in front means to negate the search). Similarly use `status-code:404` to find all requests that ended up in a 404 error.
64. A 32 bit IPv4 address is an A record. The AAAA record is similar to the A record, but it allows you to specify the IPv6 address of the server. IPv6 is four times the size – 128 bits – so it ended up being a quad-A record. You can use `dig` to determine the AAAA record associated with a domain name `dig AAAA example.com`.
65. `el.getBoundingClientRect()` is a cross-browser safe method that returns a `DOMRect` object providing information about the size of an element and its position relative to the top-left of the viewport. Note that the `width` and `height` returned by this method include the padding and border-width (same as setting `box-sizing: border-box`).
66. **Media Source Extensions** provides functionality enabling plugin-free web-based streaming media. Using MSE, media streams can be created via JavaScript. MediaSource is an object representing the video’s data, and we're not adding a link to the video (mp4 file), we're adding a link to the MediaSource object. Older versions of the Media Source specification required using `URL.createObjectURL()` to create an object URL then setting `src` to that URL. Now you can just set `srcObject` to the MediaStream directly.
67. Zero Width Joiner (ZWJ, pronounced "zwidge") is a Unicode character that joins two or more other characters together in sequence to create a new emoji. This is an invisible character when used alone and the code point is `U+200D`. When a ZWJ is placed between two emoji characters, it can result in a single glyph being shown, such as the family emoji 👨‍👨‍👦 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦, made up of two adult emoji and one or two child emoji.
68. A software license is a legal instrument spelling out what can and can’t be done with software. MIT is probably the one you’ve seen the most and is one of the most permissive licenses you can place on software. It pretty much says that you can do anything you want with the software without any issues, the only thing asked of you is to include a copy of the original copyright and license notice with every copy of the software. A lot of famous software use this license such as Node.js, Vuejs, Ruby on Rails. The ISC license (comes default with `npm init`) is essentially the same as MIT but without the clauses that would be considered extraneous.
69. Use `&times;` HTML entity for close buttons rather than the letter X. Make sure you label the button appropriately so it doesn't read out "multiplication sign".
70. Every test you write will include selectors for elements. Targeting a element by tag, class or id is very volatile and highly subject to change. Instead, adding `data-test`, `data-testid`, or `data-cy` (using Cypress) attribute to the element gives us a targeted selector that's only used for testing, which isolate them from CSS or JS changes.