1. **major.minor.patch** version (also known as **breaking.feature.fix**): `^` instructs npm to install the newest version of the package with the same major version; Use `~` to have both the major and minor version match.
2. `__dirname` and `__filename`: running `node example.js` from `/Users/mjr`, **__dirname** is `/Users/mjr` and **__filename** is `/Users/mjr/example.js`
3. Quickly browse the history of a file in the repo: Go to a file in GitHub, replace `github.com` with `github.githistory.xyz` (i.e. https://github.githistory.xyz/kexiZeroing/FE-Learning-notes/blob/master/README.md)
4. One second to read GitHub code with VS Code online. Just add 1s after github (`github1s.com`) in browser address bar for any repository you want to read.
5. `Cmd + Shift + .` toggles hidden files in Mac.
6. After `Cmd + h` to hide the window, there is no shortcut to bring the window back, **because the app loses focus when hidden**. The easiest way to do is using task switcher `Cmd + Tab` to display it normally.
7. Open VS Code in terminal: `Cmd + Shift + P` -> type **Shell Command: Install 'code' command in PATH** -> restart the terminal for the new `$PATH` value to take effect, and type `code .` to open VS Code. (`open .` to open the Finder)
8. Use "Organize Imports" in VS Code to remove unused imports. Run it via the command palette or add this to `settings.json` to run automatically on save. Another one, you can use up and down keys in the search box to access your search history.
9.  Open VS code `settings.json`: `Cmd + Shift + P` -> type "Open Settings" and choose the one with JSON. User settings apply globally, while workspace settings only apply to the workspace you are currently working in. Workspace settings override user settings.
10. Drag the file tab from VS Code into the terminal to get the absolute path for that file.
11. Browser notepad: `data:text/html,<html contenteditable>`
12. Ever struggled with some forgotten processes taking over a port you're trying to use? Just run `npx kill-port [port-number]`
13. Type `env` or `printenv` in the terminal to list all the default environment variables. The `env` command can run other commands with modified environments. If no command is given, `env` prints environment variables. `printenv` can only print environment variables and cannot run commands.
14. Install [tldr-pages](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr) `npm install -g tldr` which simplify the `man pages` with practical examples, e.g. try to run `tldr tar` or `tldr git branch`.
15. Short link `react.new`, `vue.new`, `ng.new`, `js.new`, `csb.new` to create a new codeSandbox project.
16. Use `if (typeof window === 'undefined')` to execute code only in the server-side. We can’t do it using `if (window === undefined)` because we’d get a “window is not defined” runtime error.
17. `du` command is used to display disk usage statistics. It calculate and print the disk space used by files or directories. `du -ah` (`-a` means display an entry for each file; `-h` for human-readable output).
18. You can set the parameters of the function passed to setInterval and setTimeout by specifying extra arguments in the call, e.g. `setTimeout(console.log, 1000, 'hello');`
19. Scroll the window to a particular place in the document, `window.scroll({top: 100, left: 100, behavior: 'smooth'});` or setting in CSS `html { scroll-behavior: smooth; }`
20. Conditionally add a member to an object: `const item = {... true && {bar: 'bar'}, ... false && {falsy: 'falsy'}};`, and the item will be `{bar: "bar"}`
21. A **daemon** is a background, non-interactive program. It is detached from the keyboard and display of any interactive user. The word daemon for denoting a background program is from the Unix culture.
22. If you want to distinguish `zsh` script files, then you can change the script’s file extension from `.sh` to `.zsh`. But **the file extension will have no effect on which interpreter will be used to run the script. That is determined by the shebang**, the extension only provides a visible clue in the Finder or Terminal.
23. **GNU** (GNU's Not Unix) is a collection of tools which help to create a fully functional operating system. GNU's goal was to create a fully free, open source replacement of Unix. **Linux functions as an operating system kernel but the Linux kernel alone does not form a working operating system**. When Linux was created, there were many GNU components already created but GNU lacked a kernel, so Linux was used with GNU components to create a complete operating system. We prefer to use the term **“GNU/Linux”** to refer to systems that many people casually refer to as “Linux”.
24. All shells originate from the Bourne Shell, called `sh`. **Bash** means Bourne Again SHell. `sh` was proprietary and not open source, but Bash is created as a free alternative for the GNU project. It offers functional improvements over `sh` for both programming and interactive use.
25. A local **shell variable** can be declared using `=` sign (should not be any spaces between a variable's name, `=` and its value) and its value can be retrieved using the `$` sign. Because using `$` to identify variables, you need to escape it if you want to remove a file whose name contains a `$` , like `rm -r \$RECYCLE.BIN`. Positional parameter `$0` is the script's name, and `$1 … $9` are parameter list elements from 1 to 9.
26. The javascript `void` operator evaluates the given expression and then returns undefined. It is **often used merely to obtain the undefined primitive value**, usually using `void(0)` (which is equivalent to `void 0`). Arrow functions with a short-hand braceless syntax will return an expression. This can cause unintended side effects by returning the result of a function that previously returned nothing. To be safe, when the return value is not intended to be used, it can be passed to the void operator.
27. [Browser sync](https://browsersync.io/docs/command-line) local server: `npx browser-sync start --server --files "."`. It watches all files in the current folder (and all subfolders) for changes and launches a web server on port 3000. Any time you change a file, the browser will refresh. Run `browser-sync start --help` for more information.
28. **GitHub pages** is a free way to host projects. It has two types of pages: User pages or Project pages. User pages is for hosting a personal website or a portfolio. You can only have one user page attached to your GitHub account and the URL will be `yourusername.github.io`. Project pages is used to host a project and you can create multiple project pages per account. Github uses `gh-pages` branch to get files to build and publish from. The URL for this page will be `yourusername.github.io/projectname`.
29. We can use `navigator.connection` to detect client internet speed but it doesn't get supported in many browsers. A more pragmatic solution is to download a very tiny image (`new image().onload`) multiple times and set a "threshold" value. If the image is taking (on average) longer than "threshold" milliseconds to download, then the internet must be slow. Be careful to force exit if the image wasn't downloaded in about `threshold * 3` ms (3 is arbitrary here).
30. Just-in-Time (JIT) vs Ahead-of-Time (AOT) compilation in Angular: **JIT compiler** runs on client side in the browser. It performs a lot of work to analyze application’s directives and components at runtime and generate code in memory. When the page is refreshed, all the work that has been done is thrown away, and the JIT compiler does the work all over again. **AOT compiler** runs on server side (node.js) at build time. The browser downloads a pre-compiled version of the application. The browser loads executable code so it can render the application faster. We also don't ship `@angular/compiler` code in our production bundle anymore.
31. When you use `initial` in CSS, you probably want `revert` or `unset`. `initial` will use the spec default (always e.g. `display: inline` and `color: black`); `revert` will use the browser/user styles (different per element); `unset` will use inheritance where available, fallback to `initial`.
32. **CSS scroll snap** can create a scrollable container with well-controlled scrolling experience. First, using the `overflow` with a value other than `visible` for the scrolling container. Then we need to add `scroll-snap-type: x mandatory` to the container and add `scroll-snap-align: start` to the child items. The `x` value represents horizontal scrolling, and the `mandatory` means that the browser must snap to each scroll point. The child items need an alignment point that they can snap to. We can imagine there is a magnet on the scrolling container at `start`, `center` or `end`.
33. Babel compiles JSX `<div>Hi</div>` to a function call `React.createElement('div', null, 'hi')`. If you have a comment like `/** @jsx cool */`, Babel will transpile the JSX using the function `cool` you defined instead of `React.createElement`, so you can have a function `const cool = (el, props, ...children) => {}`, which could be totally not related to React.
34. Ever tried debugging an element (e.g. input dropdown) that keeps disappearing when it loses focus once you start using devtools? `Cmd + Shift + P`, then type "Emulate a focused page". Another way to freeze UI, open up the devtools and use  `Cmd + \` to pause script execution.
35. Take screenshots using devtools: `Cmd + Shift + P`, then type "screenshots". You can choose an area screenshot (drag to select), a full website screenshot, an HTML node screenshot (need to select an element first) or a current viewport screenshot.
36. Hacks for playing html video: `$0` to get the element you inspected, and if it's a `<video>`, change playback speed `$0.playbackRate = 2` or show picture-in-picture mode `$0.requestPictureInPicture()`.
37. In devtools console, you can use `$` and `$$` as shortcuts for `document.querySelector()` and `document.querySelectorAll()` respectively (`$$` returns a true array instead of an array-like NodeList). `$0` gives you the reference to the currently selected element. `$1` is the previously selected element. That goes all the way to `$4`. Use `$_` to get the result of the last evaluated expression in the console. `copy(anything)` is a handy utility in the console that allows you to put anything into the system clipboard.
38. When you delete files, the data is not initially removed from the hard disk. Instead, the space on the disk that was occupied by the deleted data is deallocated. After it is deallocated, the space is available for use when new data is written to the disk. Until the space is overwritten, you can recover the deleted data by using a low-level disk editor or data-recovery software.