## Custom Event
The Event interface represents an event which takes place in the DOM. An event can be triggered by the user action or generated by APIs to represent the progress of an asynchronous task. It can also be triggered programmatically, such as by calling the `HTMLElement.click()` method of an element, or by defining the event, then sending it to a specified target using `EventTarget.dispatchEvent()`.

Unlike "native" events, which are fired by the DOM and invoke event handlers **asynchronously** via the event loop, **`dispatchEvent()` invokes event handlers synchronously**. All applicable event handlers will execute and return before the code continues on after the call to `dispatchEvent()`.

Events can be created with the `Event` constructor. This constructor is supported in most modern browsers (with Internet Explorer being the exception). To add more data to the event object, the `CustomEvent` interface exists and the **detail property** can be used to pass custom data.

```javascript
const event1 = new Event('build');
$0.addEventListener('build', function(e) {}, false);
$0.dispatchEvent(event1);

// Adding custom data
const event2 = new CustomEvent('build', { detail: $0.dataset.time });
function eventHandler(e) {
  console.log('The time is: ' + e.detail);
}
$0.addEventListener('build', eventHandler, false);
$0.dispatchEvent(event2);

// Event bubbling
const form = document.querySelector('form');
const textarea = document.querySelector('textarea');

const eventAwesome = new CustomEvent('awesome', {
  bubbles: true,
  detail: { text: () => textarea.value }
});

form.addEventListener('awesome', e => console.log(e.detail.text()));
textarea.addEventListener('input', e => e.target.dispatchEvent(eventAwesome));
```

### Event listener config options
- capture  
A Boolean indicating that events of this type will be dispatched to the registered listener before being dispatched to any EventTarget beneath it in the DOM tree.

- once  
A Boolean indicating that the listener should be invoked at most once after being added. If true, the listener would be automatically removed when invoked.

- passive  
A Boolean that, if true, indicates that the function specified by listener will never call `event.preventDefault()`. (to allow performance optimizations)

```javascript
// Capture all focus events in a document
document.addEventListener('focus', () => { /* ... */ }, { capture: true });

// React to click events only once
button.addEventListener('click', () => { /* ... */ }, { once: true });

// Tell the browser that touch events won't block scrolling
document.addEventListener('touchstart', () => { /* ... */ }, { passive: true });
```

## History API
